During the past five years,
over 1.3 million faithful ones
have symbolized their dedication
to Jehovah by water baptism.
That’s an average
of over 700 each day.
And among those
courageously taking their stand
for true worship
are thousands of children,
teenagers, and young adults.
Young brothers and sisters,
we know it is not always easy
to serve Jehovah
and live up to your dedication.
Like older ones,
you need to be encouraged
and strengthened spiritually.
With that in mind,
our theme this month is
“Young Ones, ‘Become an Example
to the Faithful Ones.’”
It is based on the inspiring true-life story
of a young Christian named Timothy.
Before we discuss Timothy’s example,
did you know that the Bible
specifically foretold
that many young people would take
sides with Jehovah in our time?
Let’s look at this at Psalm 110:3.
And as we read it together,
note how young ones are having a share
in fulfilling this prophecy.
Notice the first part of verse 3,
David sang:
“Your people will offer themselves willingly
on the day of your military force.”
According to this prophecy, Jesus,
the Messianic King,
would have a large army
of willing supporters.
Since 1914, millions have carefully
investigated the facts
and chosen to side with
Jehovah God and Jesus Christ.
But where do young ones
come into this picture?
The rest of the verse continues:
“In splendid holiness,
from the womb of the dawn,
“you have your company of young men
just like dewdrops.”
Here, the prophecy refers to a “company,”
or group, of young ones.
They also would study the evidence
and support God’s Kingdom.
How many young people
did Jehovah foresee
supporting true worship?
We get an idea by
the comparison made to dewdrops.
Have you have ever gone outside
early in the morning
and noticed a light, sparkling coating
of water on the ground?
That may have been dew.
Jehovah designed our atmosphere so that,
under certain conditions,
when the temperature
cools during the night,
a blanket of moisture
forms on the ground.
That coating is made up
of a multitude of little drops.
Young ones,
what does dew have to do with you?
In the Bible, dew is connected
with blessing and abundance.
Dewdrops are also refreshing,
life-sustaining, and numerous.
Now, remember in Psalm 110:3,
Jehovah was looking ahead to our time.
And what did he see?
The September 15, 2002,
Watchtower on page 8
explained it this way:
“Just like refreshing dewdrops,
“many young men and women
cheerfully serve God
and assist their fellow worshipers.”
Today, there are so many mature,
bright, happy young ones
in the Christian congregation
that they are like countless dewdrops
that sparkle in the morning sun.
You faithful children, teenagers,
and young adults who have dedicated
your life to Jehovah
or who are working toward that goal
are living proof that Jehovah’s confidence
in young people was never misplaced.
He cherishes you very much and so do we.
Of course, knowing
that Jehovah has confidence in us
can be very encouraging.
But what if doubts or negative thoughts
tend to bring us down?
On occasion,
a young Witness might wonder,
‘Does anyone other
than Jehovah notice me?
Does my example really matter to others?’
To address these questions,
let’s now consider Timothy’s example.
Open your Bible, please,
to our theme text at 1 Timothy 4:12.
When you find it,
you might want to bookmark the verse
because we want to first
understand the setting.
How old was Timothy at this time?
Often, when thinking of Timothy,
I picture a teenager or a young man
in his early twenties.
And when he
first started traveling with Paul,
he was about that age.
But several years passed
before Paul wrote letters to Timothy.
So by the time
First Timothy was written,
Timothy was likely in his early thirties.
Now, what do you think?
Was Timothy young or old?
Some of you younger ones
may be thinking to yourselves,
‘If he was over 30,
then he was old!’
But remember,
a much older man like Paul
would say that Timothy was quite young.
In fact, notice the expression
he uses when writing to Timothy.
First Timothy 4:12, Paul says:
“Never let anyone
look down on your youth.
“Instead, become an example
to the faithful ones
“in speaking, in conduct, in love,
in faith, in chasteness.”
Paul called Timothy a youth
and urged him to be a good example.
While Timothy may have been
in his early thirties at this time,
remember that he was
taught about Jehovah
from the time he was a baby,
and he did well in the truth
as a young person.
In fact, when he was still a teenager
or in his early twenties,
the elders recommended him
to serve as a missionary with Paul.
So, in effect,
Paul here is urging Timothy
to continue to be
a good example for others.
What else do we know about Timothy?
He was not proud, or haughty.
He likely did not view himself
as some amazing example.
I’m sure he never dreamed
that one day Christians all over the world
would study his life in detail
so as to imitate his faith.
Timothy was modest
—and this despite his privileges.
Paul’s words may indicate
that Timothy was somewhat shy.
Like many of us,
he may have battled with feelings
of self-doubt on occasion.
Based on this information,
let’s do something interesting now.
Let’s use our imagination
to visualize Timothy,
an elder in his early thirties,
coming to give a Scriptural talk
in the congregation.
Got the picture?
In your mind,
please look at Timothy
and then look at the audience.
Who do we see?
Many in attendance are old enough
to be Timothy’s parents
or grandparents.
How do you think Timothy felt?
Super confident?
Are you visualizing him proudly walking
into the meeting place, saying,
“I sure wish my friends back
in Lystra could see me now.
Look at the crowds
that come to hear me speak!”
No, that’s not the Timothy we know.
It’s much more likely that Timothy,
like most of us,
rehearsed his presentation
over and over again.
He probably prayed constantly,
and he probably still got nervous,
like all of us.
And remember,
Timothy did not have the benefit
of theocratic schools like we do today.
In summary,
what can we say about Timothy?
Like so many of you,
he was an example
of faith and obedience.
He was exceptional
in displaying Christian qualities,
such as modesty and humility.
But Timothy was a person
with normal human feelings,
like all of us.
Though he had a rich,
happy life in Jehovah’s service,
life in the old world
brought real tests and challenges.
Timothy also dealt with
frequent cases of sickness,
and he was imprisoned for a time.
Some of you in various countries
can relate to those bitter experiences.
But Timothy endured.
Was he some “super Christian”
with superpowers?
No, but he did
prove to be a super example!
How does all of this
help you Christian youths
who have taken the commendable step
to dedicate your lives to Jehovah?
We just read how Paul told Timothy
to let no one look down on his youth.
A few of you may be thinking,
‘I wish someone would tell my parents
‘or my elders not to look down on me.
They still treat me like a little kid.’
If that’s the case,
we feel for you.
No progressive young one
wants to be treated as if he were a child.
But let’s look again at 1 Timothy 4:12.
Is the apostle Paul speaking
to the congregation,
to parents, or to the elders?
“Never let anyone look down
“on your youth.
“Instead, become an example
to the faithful ones in speaking,
in conduct, in love,
in faith, in chasteness.”
It’s clear, isn’t it?
Paul said your youth.
He was speaking only to Timothy.
Young ones, by extension,
what is Jehovah saying to each of you?
It’s this: To gain and maintain
the respect of faithful ones,
you have to work
at proving yourself as a Christian.
The key is not wanting or hoping
that others will respect you.
Rather, it’s earning such respect
by setting a good example
in all areas of life.
If you do that,
then no one will have any legitimate reason
to look down on your youth.
Doesn’t it make sense
that we gain respect by earning it?
We are confident
that you young ones are trying hard
to live by Christian principles at school
and in the neighborhood.
But in verse 12, did you notice
who Timothy was to be an example to?
To “the faithful ones.”
Are you an example to Christians,
both younger and older,
in your congregation
and in your circuit?
If you work on Kingdom Hall
construction projects or at Bethel,
are you an example
to your fellow workers?
Well, what are some specific ways
you can become an example
to all of these “faithful ones”?
In our theme text,
Timothy was first directed
to become an example in speaking.
On this topic,
I’ll never forget an illustration
used in the “Young People Ask” article
from the January 2012 Awake!
It quoted a young man,
James, who said:
“Once you squeeze toothpaste out,
you can’t put it back in the tube.
“The same is true with our words.
Once we say something hurtful,
we can’t take it back.”
God’s Word agrees with James.
Note what it says at Ephesians 4:29.
It tells us:
“Let a rotten word
not come out of your mouth,
“but only what is good
for building up as the need may be,
to impart what is beneficial
to the hearers.”
For some years now,
those getting baptized
have been encouraged
to complete a study of the book,
“Keep Yourselves in God’s Love.”
Chapter 12 is entitled
“Speak What ‘Is Good for Building Up.’”
On page 140,
there is a box with five questions
that can help us evaluate our speech.
For example:
“When was the last time I offered
someone specific commendation?
“Do I express my respect for others
by saying please and thank you?
“In conversation,
do I speak mainly about myself,
or am I also interested
in the thoughts and feelings of others?”
Young ones,
over the next few days,
why not review that box on page 140,
look up the scriptures,
and think about what Jehovah is saying?
Then apply what you learn to your speech.
Doing this will draw you closer to Jehovah
and help you to become
an even better example
to the faithful ones.
The second area
mentioned in our theme text
is becoming an example in conduct.
Of course,
upbuilding speech would be empty
or hypocritical
if our conduct was questionable.
Think again about Timothy.
It wasn’t enough for him to give comments
and talks at the meetings
or preach from door to door.
Later in the same letter,
Paul reminded Timothy
that he needed to treat older men
and women as fathers and mothers;
younger men and women
were to be treated as brothers and sisters.
Second Peter 3:11
provides a similar urgent reminder
about our conduct.
Let’s read that together.
Again, that’s 2 Peter 3:11.
There it tells us:
“Since all these things
are to be dissolved in this way,
“consider what sort of people
you ought to be
in holy acts of conduct.”
Let’s think about that.
For a person’s conduct to be holy
from Jehovah’s perspective,
he or she must be morally clean.
While physical cleanness
is on the outside,
moral cleanness is on the inside
—in our thoughts and desires.
Is being morally clean really important?
Think about it this way.
When eating a meal,
would you be content to eat from a bowl
that had been washed
only on the outside?
Of course not!
We want to eat from clean dishes
—dishes that are
thoroughly clean inside and out.
So when we wash dishes,
we wash the outside and the inside.
Similarly,
Jehovah expects his servants
to be clean through and through.
And because Jehovah
—the perfect reader of hearts—
will soon dissolve, yes,
eliminate this dirty system of things,
it’s urgent that we do so.
This means
that we have to work very hard
so that nothing unclean
enters our mind.
That means firmly rejecting
so-called fun
and exciting entertainment,
which features sex,
violence, or spiritism.
At 1 Corinthians 14:20,
the Bible tells us
that we should become
like “young children as to badness.”
No matter our age,
we don’t need and we don’t want
any experience
with the wickedness of this world.
Rather,
we keep the inside of the dish,
our mind and heart,
clean at all times.
And when we do so,
our exemplary conduct
pleases Jehovah and it strengthens
our faithful brothers and sisters.
Really, it’s the only way
to respect ourselves
and to gain the respect of others.
Our theme text at 1 Timothy 4:12
goes on to mention other areas
where we can make steady progress
in becoming an example,
such as in love, in faith,
and in chasteness.
During your personal study,
that is, your personal time
with your best Friend, Jehovah,
why not examine these areas
in more detail?
The treasures you gain
from such a study project
can last a lifetime
—an everlasting lifetime.
So, what have we learned?
In fulfillment of Bible prophecy,
a large company of young people
from around the world
are taking a stand
with Jehovah and Jesus.
That includes all of you.
Like dewdrops,
you’re not only abundant in number
but you sparkle in our congregations.
Your presence is very refreshing.
So please,
don’t look down on your youth.
Rather, rejoice in your youth!
Yes, “become an example
to the faithful ones”!